# The impact of renewable energy facilities and traditional power plants on local housing prices: a study from the UK.
This dissertation first reviews the framework and literature involving the revealed preference methods and the stated preference methods applied to the valuation of externalities from electricity generation. 
Then, in line with the hedonic price literature for environmental valuation, this study uses property transactions data from England and Wales to examine whether power plants have an effect on the price of houses nearby and therefore whether agents value a power plant as a disamenity. 86 power stations located in the UK are taken into consideration. They use different technologies to produce energy: combined cycle gas turbines, open cycle gas turbines, conventional steam, wind turbines, solar panels and bioenergy. 
Estimation is based on a difference-in-differences research design that compares housing prices, aggregated at postcode level, before and after the new energy facility becomes operational between postcodes within 3 kilometres of the facility and postcodes that are more than 3 kilometres away from the facility. Robustness checks and different specifications are carried out to validate the credibility of the model and the assumptions necessary for the difference-in-differences technique. 
The results suggest that openings of fossil fuel power plants determine a decrease in the housing prices, varying from 3% decrease for CCGT plants to 12% decrease for steam plants. Regarding renewables energy facilities, plants based on the combustion of biomass have a negative effect of 9% reduction to house prices, while wind farms have no effects. Finally, openings of photovoltaic power plants increase nearby house prices by around 2%. Moreover, bigger sites tend to have a larger impact in their proximity. 
